[Music]. this is fairphone4 the phone that sets. out to be different from the rest with. up to 5 years warranty long-term. software support and ease of repair this. sounds like a phone you truly own. as well as being good for you it's also. more sustainably made. included is just the phone and some. paperwork to no surprise there isn't an. included charger but fairphone has taken. it a step further with no usb cable. either i hope your old one isn't worn. out either because fairphone charges 60. euros or around 90 australian dollars. for an official charger and cable. the first of this phone's problems is. actually purchasing one you can buy. directly from fairphone if you live in. the eu or uk but if you live elsewhere. they won't sell you their product i. can't imagine the logistics and. legislation that you would have to abide. by just to sell a product so i can. somewhat understand this but for a phone. maker that's been around for almost a. decade it seems strange. as of this it took me two years just to. get one for this video emails to. fairphone directly or through someone. who had been talking to their pr team. got me nowhere. usually buying the phone is the easy. part of these videos. when one appeared on ebay from the uk. for 909 australian dollars i just had to. have it. this particular model is the grey. colorway with 128 gigs of storage and 6. gigs of ram but a 256 gig model with 8. gigs of ram is also available. from the outside it looks pretty. standard to a regular phone but it's how. it's built that's different to anything. else on the market. and it all starts at the back where you. won't find fragile glass glued into. place but a plastic back that unclips. inside things look similar to most. android phones but with a repairable. twist the addition of some groovy. graphics provide info on what each part. is and you won't find a glued in battery. here. it's essentially a modern phone with the. opening procedure of an old nokia this. idea isn't genius it's something that. used to be expected and something that. should be made mandatory. along with being easy to open you can. also buy replacement parts direct from. fairphone with such a large emphasis on. repair i wanted to follow an official. guide to take it apart. the problem i couldn't find it. find and fix an issue yourself sounded. like the right place to be and while it. pointed you towards purchasing the part. it didn't show me where to find any. installation guide it also wasn't. anywhere to be found on the spare parts. page. after about 30 minutes i found it on the. quick start manual under watch video. tutorials which pointed to a youtube. playlist with several repair videos. later i also found it under a how-to. section of the support page. the effort is there but their website is. really confusing an easy fix but still. something worth mentioning. i'll begin by removing the upper section. which according to the graphic houses. the camera and earpiece speaker there is. a little access door that once removed. reveals three flex cables for the. cameras that need to be unplugged. lifting it out of place you can see the. antenna and camera come out as one piece. this is how bare phones sell the. replacement camera part while you can. separate the cameras i understand this. phone is designed to be simple to repair. by everyone so doing it this way. prevents an end user from getting dust. or fingerprints over the cameras. both cameras are 48 megapixels with the. smallest one being the ultra wide camera. if you only needed to replace the one. camera that option is still possible as. the cameras are not fused into the. plastic antenna. i found a hidden image of what appears. to be a country this company is from the. netherlands so that was my first thought. but it's not shaped like that anyone. else got any ideas of what it might be. regardless i can remove the front camera. and earpiece both of which are not. secured with glue. down at the lower section i can remove. the speaker after its six phillips. screws are unfastened. attached to the speaker is a vibration. motor with that out of the way we have. access to the usbc port one cable is all. it takes to get it out but something is. missing do you see it. where's the headphone jack well it seems. i wasn't the only one asking fairphone. made a video about it for us it has been. a design decision so in order to make. this phone last for five and even more. years it is important that we remove any. part of the phone that may break and. since the audio jack. fulfills a function that can also be. done via your charging port we said hey. let's bring those two functions together. and then let's just put it into one. usb port or connector. so there you have it one of fair phones. reasons for its removal is a phone. designed to be repairable cannot have a. headphone jack because it might break. what do you think in my video about why. companies really remove the headphone. jack i discussed it was to push the sale. of expensive unrepairable wireless. headphones but there's no way the same. company that made this phone would. release wireless headphones with. non-replaceable batteries right. wrong let me introduce you to the. fairphone wireless earbuds they might be. built from some recycled materials but. in the specs you'll find the batteries. are not replaceable by design. however they do offer hull replacement. buds and charging cases but as both. headphone batteries would degrade at a. similar rate you'd likely be replacing. both which would cost only 10 euros less. than buying a new set that would also. come with a charging case. in my eyes fairphone is essentially the. alternative phone that's more. environmentally friendly repairable and. open removing the headphone jack just. takes away from that. the mid section of plastic is secured. using torx screws this area isn't. obviously intended to be removed by the. end user so let's see what's beneath. well i've just uncovered another hidden. feature. dual sim capability the second physical. sim slot is missing but its solder pads. are present this phone is only available. with one sim and one e-sim. i wonder if i was to solder a sim reader. on it if it would override the e-sim. with nothing visibly securing the. motherboard i tried to lift it out but. it didn't budge. after all we never did unplug the. display which means its connector must. be on the other side of the motherboard. to remove the display there are eight. screws around the perimeter of the phone. once removed the screen can be lifted up. using a suction cup and plastic pick. absolutely no glue is holding the screen. in place in fact with only eight screws. holding it down the screen can be. removed without even taking anything. else out of the phone. with it free the one connector can be. detached. looking at the display it's glued to a. plastic frame and this frame is what. then screws onto the phone. a simple but really well executed design. after the motherboard is out we're left. with just a bare frame with the buttons. intact these are not intended for user. replacement as evidenced by the tape. covering them and the lack of a. replacement for sale on fair phone sign. but with that we've completely. disassembled the fairphone 4. if you've. seen any of my other terana repair. assessment videos you'll be amazed at. just how simple this thing is to take. apart. but with some phones taking it apart is. the least of your problems as the. software is being programmed to reject. any replacement part that's not. installed by the manufacturer. but that's not the case with this fair. phone and repairability hasn't taken. away from the specifications either this. motherboard packs a snapdragon 750 g. with 6 or 8 gigs of ram. while almost having perfect modularity. my only complaint is the 3 microphones. and the proximity sensor are soldered. directly onto the board. it's time to get it all reassembled a. process so easy just about anybody could. do it there's no glue to reapply or. crazy amount of screws to install. typical repairs like the display cameras. or charging port only take a matter of a. few minutes you could replace every part. of this phone in the time it would take. to heat up the adhesive to even be able. to open an iphone or samsung. with the internals installed you might. have noticed i didn't put the screen on. first well with this phone you don't. have to. it can be installed with the heart of. the phone still intact. once its flex cable is attached i can. simply press it down into place and. attach the eight phillips screws. i can now install the 3900 milliamp hour. battery and back cover. with that. we're done. so this is it the almost perfect. repairable smartphone with easy to. replace components a marketplace to buy. genuine parts and an unlocked bootloader. this is a phone you really own if you. want to fix it customize it or flash. different software you can. and before you ask no this won't be. becoming my new daily driver why well. with no dual physical sim and no. headphone jack it fails my basic phone. needs after all my old phone still works. perfectly and does everything i need it. to so needlessly replacing it would be. wasteful. being an eu phone you might also be. wondering can you even use it abroad. while using my australian sim works. perfectly good afternoon. in the specs of this phone you'll find. the compatible network bands so as long. as your country has one of these it. should work without issue and i should. mention a user replaceable battery isn't. just about ease of repair ability if. you're on a holiday business trip or. even out camping you can just swap out a. battery in a few seconds and have a. fully charged phone. it doesn't seem as though fairphone. sells an external charger but if they. did you could better utilize that. functionality. and on that note this has been a huge. jeffries video if you like what you saw. hit that subscribe button and consider. checking out the teardown and repair. assessment playlist for more videos just. like this one and if you're looking for. any used devices be sure to check out my. online store link for which is down the. description that's all for this video. and i'll catch you guys next time.